.TH "WIMENU" 1 "Oct, 2009" "wmii-@VERSION@"

.SH NAME
.P
wimenu \- The wmii menu program

.SH SYNOPSIS
.P
wimenu \fI[\-i]\fR \fI[\-h \fI<history file>\fR]\fR \fI[\-n \fI<history count>\fR]\fR \fI[\-p \fI<prompt>\fR]\fR 
.P
wimenu \-v

.SH DESCRIPTION
.P
\fBwimenu\fR is \fBwmii\fR's standard menu program. It's used
extensively by \fBwmii\fR and related programs to prompt the user
for input. The standard configuration uses it to launch
programs, select views, and perform standard actions. It
supports basic item completion and history searching.

.SH BASIC ARGUMENTS
.P
Normal use of \fBwimenu\fR shouldn't require any arguments other than the
following. More advanced options are documented below.

.TP
\-h \fI<history file>\fR
Causes \fBwimenu\fR to read its command history from
\fI<history file>\fR and to append its result to that file if
\fI\-n\fR is given.
.TP
\-i
Causes matching of completion items to be performed in a
case insensitive manner.
.TP
\-n \fI<count>\fR
Write at most \fI<count>\fR items back to the history file.
The file is never modified unless this option is
provided. Duplicates are filtered out within a 20 item
sliding window before this limit is imposed.
.TP
\-p \fI<prompt>\fR
The string \fI<prompt>\fR will be show before the input field
when the menu is opened.
.TP
\-r \fI<rows>\fR
Display completion items as a vertical list, one per
row, rather than a horizontal list, side\-by\-side. A
maximum of \fI<rows>\fR rows will be displayed.


.SH ADVANCED ARGUMENTS
.TP
\-a
The address at which to connect to \fBwmii\fR.
.TP
\-K
Prevents \fBwimenu\fR from initializing its default key
bindings. WARNING: If you do this, be sure to bind a key
with the Accept or Reject action, or you will have no way
to exit \fBwimenu\fR.
.TP
\-k \fI<key file>\fR
Key bindings will be read from \fI<key file>\fR. Bindings
appear as:

\fI<key>\fR \fI[action]\fR \fI[args]\fR

where \fI<key>\fR is a key name, similar to the format used by
wmii. For action and args, please refer to the default
bindings, provided in the source distribution under
cmd/menu/keys.txt, or use strings(1) on the \fBwimenu\fR
executable (this level of customization is reserved for the
determined).
.TP
\-s \fI<screen>\fR
Suggests that the menu open on Xinerama screen \fI<screen>\fR.
.TP
\-S \fI<command separator>\fR

.RS
Causes each input item to be split at the first occurance of
\fI<command sep>\fR. The text to the left of the separator is displayed
as a menu option, and the text to the right is displayed when a
selection is made.
.RE

.SH KEY BINDINGS
.P
\fBwimenu\fR's default key bindings are based largely on the
movement keys of vi and the standard UNIX shell input bindings.

.TP
Return, C\-j, C\-m
Accept the input, and select the first matching
completion if the cursor is at the end of the input.
.TP
S\-Return, C\-S\-j, C\-S\-m
Accept the input literally.
.TP
Esc, C\-[
Quit without returning any output, and exit with
non\-zero status.

.TP
A\-p
Paste the PRIMARY selection.

.TP
Left, C\-b
Move backward one character.
.TP
Right, C\-f
Move forward one character.

.TP
A\-b
Move backward one word.
.TP
A\-f
Move forward one word.

.TP
C\-a
Move to the begining of the line.
.TP
C\-e
Move to the end of the line.

.TP
C\-p, up
Move backward through the input history.
.TP
C\-n, up
Move forward through the input history.

.TP
Backspace, C\-h
Delete the previous character.
.TP
C\-Backspace, C\-w
Delete the previous word.
.TP
C\-u
Delete the previous portion of the line.

.TP
Tab, C\-i¸ A\-l
Select the next completion.
.TP
S\-Tab, C\-S\-i, A\-h
Select the previous completion.
.TP
PageUp, A\-k
Select the previous completion page.
.TP
PageDown, A\-j
Select the next completion page.
.TP
Home, A\-g
Select the first completion page.
.TP
End, A\-S\-g
Select the last completion page.

.SH CUSTOM COMPLETION
.P
Custom, multipart completion data may be proveded by an
external application. When the standard input is not a TTY,
processing of a set of completions stops at every blank line.
After the first new line or EOF, \fBwimenu\fR displays the first
set of menu items, and waits for further input. The completion
items may be replaced by writing out a new set, again followed
by a new line. Every set following the first must begin with a
line containing a single decimal number specifying where the
new completion results are to be spliced into the input. When
an item is selected, text from this position to the position
of the caret is replaced.

.SS ARGUMENTS
.TP
\-c
Prints the contents of the input buffer each time the
user inputs a character, as such:

\fI<text before caret>\fR\en\fI<text after caret>\fR\en


.SS EXAMPLE
.P
Let's assume that a script would like to provide a menu with
completions first for a command name, then for arguments
to that command. Given three commands and argument sets,

.TP
foo

.RS
1, 2, 3
.RE
.TP
bar

.RS
4, 5, 6
.RE
.TP
baz

.RS
7, 8, 9
.RE

.P
the following script provides the appropriate completions:

.nf
  #!/bin/sh -f
  
  rm fifo
  mkfifo fifo
  
  # Open wimenu with a fifo as its stdin
  wimenu -c <fifo | awk '
  	BEGIN {
  		# Define the completion results
  		cmds = "foo\enbar\enbaz\en"
  		cmd\fI["foo"]\fR = "1\en2\en3\en"
  		cmd\fI["bar"]\fR = "4\en5\en6\en"
  		cmd\fI["baz"]\fR = "7\en8\en9\en"
  
  		# Print the first set of completions to wimenu’s fifo
  		fifo = "fifo"
  		print cmds >fifo; fflush(fifo)
  	}
  
          { print; fflush() }
  
  	# Push out a new set of completions
  	function update(str, opts) {
  		print length(str) >fifo # Print the length of the preceding string
  		print opts >fifo        # and the options themself
  		fflush(fifo)
  	}
  
  	# Ensure correct argument count with trailing spaces
  	/ $/ { $0 = $0 "#"; }
  
  	{ # Process the input and provide the completions
  		if (NF == 1)
  			update("", cmds)        # The first arg, command choices
  		else
  			update($1 " ", cmd\fI[$1]\fR) # The second arg, command arguments
  		# Skip the trailing part of the command
  		getline rest
  	}
  \&' | tail -1
.fi


.P
In theory, this facility can be used for myriad purposes,
including hijacking the programmable completion facilities of
most shells. See also the provided examples\fI[1]\fR.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
\fB$WMII_ADDRESS\fR
The address at which to connect to wmii.
.TP
\fB$NAMESPACE\fR
The namespace directory to use if no address is
provided.

.SH SEE ALSO
.P
wmii(1), wmiir(1), wistrug(1), wmii9menu(1), dmenu(1)

.P
\fI[1]\fR http://www.suckless.org/wiki/wmii/tips/9p_tips 
.P
\fI[2]\fR @EXAMPLES@


.\" man code generated by txt2tags 2.5 (http://txt2tags.sf.net)
.\" cmdline: txt2tags -o- wimenu.man1

