.TH "WIMENU" 1 "May, 2010" "wmii-@VERSION@"

.SH NAME
.P
wistrut \- The wmii EWMH strut manager

.SH SYNOPSIS
.P
wistrut \fI[\-HV]\fR \fI<window|class>\fR... 
.P
wistrut \-v

.SH DESCRIPTION
.P
\fBwistrut\fR automatically sets EWMH struts on windows for programs
which don't provide such functionality. This allows you to leave
utility windows onscreen without obscuring managed clients. Instead,
whatever part of the screen is occupied by the window will be left
free by wmii, provided it is less than half of the screen width or
height. Struts are automatically updated when the managed windows
are moved or resized, and are only applied if the window is touching
an edge of the screen.

.P
\fBwistrut\fR may be used with any EWMH compatible window manager.

.SH ARGUMENTS
.P
All non\-option arguments constitute window IDs or regular
expressions. In the latter case, the any window whose
\fI<name>\fR:\fI<class>\fR:\fI<title>\fR (as used in wmii's colrules and tagrules)
will be managed.

.TP
\-H

.RS
Only set horizontal struts. Normally, \fBwistrut\fR locates
struts in the direction of the narrowest dimension of the
window, provided it is touching a screen edge. With this
option set, they will always be allocated on either the left
or right of the screen. Never the top or bottom.
.RE
.TP
\-V

.RS
Only set vertical struts. See \-H.
.RE
.TP
\-v

.RS
Display version information.
.RE

.SH BUGS
.P
There is no way to remove struts from a window other than to move it
away from the edge of the screen and kill \fBwistrut\fR.

.SH SEE ALSO
.P
wmii(1)


.\" man code generated by txt2tags 2.5 (http://txt2tags.sf.net)
.\" cmdline: txt2tags -o- wistrut.man1

