.TH "WITRAY" 1 "May, 2010" "wmii-@VERSION@"


.SH NAME

.P
witray \- The wmii system tray

.SH SYNOPSIS

.P
witray [\fI\-a \fI<address>\fR\fR] [\fI\-NESW\fR] [\fI\-HV\fR] [\fI\-p \fI<padding>\fR\fR] [\fI\-s \fI<iconsize>\fR\fR] \-t (tags) 
.P
witray \-v

.SH DESCRIPTION

.P
\fBwitray\fR is a simple system tray program meant to be used with wmii.
It supports the Freedesktop System Tray Protocol Specification
common among all newer applications and desktop environments. The
tray is only visible when applications require it.  While there are
many standalone system tray applications, this one is explicitly
tailored to wmii. It's simple, stays out of the user's way, is easy
to configure, and generally Just Works.

.SH ARGUMENTS

.TP
\-a
The address at which to connect to \fBwmii\fR.
.TP
\-N \-E \-S \-W

.RS
Sets the screen edge where \fBwitray\fR is to appear to the
\fINorth\fR, \fISouth\fR, \fIEast\fR, or \fIWest\fR edge, respectively.
Options may be combined, for instance *\-NE* gives the _North
East_ corner of the screen. If no options are given,
\fBwitray\fR opens to the West of whichever part of the screen
the wmii bar occupies.
.RE

.TP
\-H \-V

.RS
Specifies whether icons are to be aligned horizontally or
vertically, respectively. Also determines from which edge of
the screen windows are shunted to make room for the tray.
.RE

.TP
\-n
Do not replace an already running system tray.
.TP
\-p \fI<padding>\fR

.RS
Sets the padding between icons and around the edge of the
tray. In pixels.
.RE

.TP
\-s \fI<iconsize>\fR

.RS
Sets the size of the icons, in pixels. If not provided,
icons are sized so that the tray is the same height as the
\fBwmii\fR bar.
.RE

.TP
\-t \fI<tags>\fR

.RS
The tags on which to open. Default: \fI/./\fR
.RE

.TP
\-v

.RS
Display version information.
.RE

.SH CAVEATS

.P
\fBwitray\fR is not XRandR aware.

.SH SEE ALSO

.P
wmii(1), wimenu(1)

.\" man code generated by txt2tags 2.6 (http://txt2tags.org)
.\" cmdline: txt2tags -o- witray.man1
