.TH "WMII9MENU" 1 "Oct, 2009" "wmii-@VERSION@"

.SH NAME
.P
wmii9menu \- The wmii menu program

.SH SYNOPSIS
.P
wmii9menu \fI[\-a \fI<address>\fR]\fR \fI[\-i \fI<initial>\fR]\fR \fI<item>\fR\fI[:\fI<command>\fR]\fR...
wmii9menu \-v

.SH DESCRIPTION
.P
\fBwmii9menu\fR is \fBwmii\fR's standard clickable menu program. It's used
extensively by \fBwmii\fR and related programs to display clickable
menus, namely for window titlebars and bar items. The name, along
with the code, derives from the 9menu program, which in turn derives
its name from Plan 9's style of clickable menus.

.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
\-a
The address at which to connect to \fBwmii\fR.
.TP
\-i \fI<initial>\fR

.RS
If \fI<initial>\fR is listed among the other items on the command
line, it is selected at startup, and the menu is positioned
so that the mouse pointer is centered on said item.
.RE
.P
:

.SH USAGE
.P
\fBwmii9menu\fR is invoked with a list of arguments, each of which is
displayed as a menu item. The first \fI:\fR in the item name, and any
text following it, is stripped. The menu is opened such that the
mouse pointer is centered on the selected item. If a mouse button is
depressed when the menu opens, then releasing it will confirm the
selection. Otherwise, a mouse press will do the same. When a
selection is made, \fBwmii9menu\fR prints the result. If the selected
item initially contained a \fI:\fR, the text following it is printed.
Otherwise, the item text itself is printed.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
\fB$WMII_ADDRESS\fR
The address at which to connect to wmii.
.TP
\fB$NAMESPACE\fR
The namespace directory to use if no address is
provided.

.SH SEE ALSO
.P
wmii(1), wmiir(1), wimenu(1)

.P
\fI[1]\fR http://www.suckless.org/wiki/wmii/tips/9p_tips


.\" man code generated by txt2tags 2.5 (http://txt2tags.sf.net)
.\" cmdline: txt2tags -o- wmii9menu.man1

